What's on your mind wimpy Chris and Colonel Linux probably know the answer to this. So I've got an old microphone
with
Screw hole in the bottom of it that I imagine is some sort of standard. Is it a standard? Yeah. Yeah
Yeah, it's sort of like you like for like mounting on a tripod
yeah, yeah, what I was thinking is could I get like
an arm that I can attach to the desk and screw this into it and do I have to buy anything
Clever or specific or is it just a general?
Thing no, does it look yeah
I was gonna say is it does it look like it's about five-eighths of an inch because that is a really great arm
That uses a standard
standard microphone five-eighths inch mount
Okay, I'm gonna have to get my granddad's ruler out of the garage to tell you
The chances are if there's a screw hole at the bottom of the microphone
I highly doubt it would be anything else
But just the same you may like you have any other microphone stand that you can look and see
There it is. There is a standard and I believe it's five-eighths of an inch
No, this is an old. This is an old mic. Oh, I see. Yeah. Okay, that looks about that looks about similar
So the reason I'm saying about getting my granddad's thing out is because we're metric over here now for me
So although so although we can speak in feet and inches and all the rest of it
When you get down to sub inch measurements, I've got no idea what that looks like
If you wanted if you wanted our a
Desktop boom arm though. That is what I would get because it comes with both the clamp and the mount so you can either screw
It into the desk or you can clamp it clamp it down onto the edge of a desk and it's still only 50 bucks
Bound to the wire. Yeah, I prefer to some what about?
You're gonna roll today
Because of the photo we were taking before the show started I think they could cut things rolling I can see why you've got three kids
I'm a Scorpio
What about isolators
The the the rings that you mount the oh, yeah, like the spider mount. Yeah. Yeah of any good. Well, they'll help you from stuff
Like like any kind of noise transfer like this from the table or like, you know
When we when we this is like me picking up Angela's water bottle
They'll help isolate. Yeah. Yeah, I can't really hear that
So the thing is is that obviously I've got my keyboard and what have you on the desk?
I'm thinking yeah, I might want to be typing and clattering away. Yeah, I'm doing yeah
Yeah, it's nice to have a spider mount if especially if you're not doing video then, you know, that's the only reason I don't have
One release because they're horrible in on video
We cover half your face in front of a camera. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah
I haven't got that to worry about and frankly if anything covered my face up. I have a I have a face for radio
Yeah, and what Mike are you using
I've told this once before but I
Couldn't tell you
Some old old crap that I had when I used to be in a band, but I got out the loft. There's no
Brand or model number on it. It's just a generic mic
that I've
Jimmy rigged with some USB adapters. Hmm
Yeah, I don't know I think it was at the 80 to 80 to 20 is like the what is the 8 there's an 80
That's a good USB mount a mic 80 20 20 20 20 20 and then they have the 80 20 20 usb
Which has a built-in
Analog to digital converter. That's nice
Play on Linux is switching to Java. Do you guys see that?
Really yeah
Yeah, and play on Linux is switching it. I know I know they even have they even have a little of the screenshot up here
so I guess part of the reason is because Ubuntu 1510 is gonna drop Python 2 and
Their main problem was WX Python
Even WX Python 3.0 does not support Python 3x play on Linux is a version code is really ugly and we don't want to maintain
It any longer
Moreover because of bad design and changing WX Python to another library as much as it takes as much effort
We can completely rewrite the program
We really want to have clean code for play on Linux 5 Python is really great
But working with a damn not dynamically typed has a lot of drawbacks when it comes to design and strong designed architecture
So they're gonna have the core written in Java
Play on Linux 5 scripts would be written in Python. Good bye bash
With a play on Linux 4 version 4 bash script interpreter would be written in Python for backwards compatibility
Play on Linux going Java, this is gonna kill it you think
I
I've got so many things going through my mind at the moment. Um,
Well, I'm familiar with I'm very familiar with Python and Wix and
Wix never really delivered on its promise. We unfortunately we have an application at work that we developed in Wix and
We realized now that was not such a smart move, but you know six years ago that that looked like the right thing to do
If we were doing it today, we'd use one of the um, cute
Uh wrappers for for Python. We'd still use Python though
Um, but going to Java because of uh,
a widget library issue seems like um, an unusual
Rationalization, right? I'm wondering if there must have been a preference in the team for Java already that this has made it easier
If they've got if they're strong on Java programming skills, then that would be the reason why it makes sense
Yeah, so why Java not another language? As I said Java is static in a compiled language
It means it's easy to write clean code
And it also means that a large part of the problems are detected during compilation to avoid bugs
But Java is good choice for several other reasons. The code would be compatible with Linux and OS 10 with no effort. Hmm
I guess OS 10 is an issue. It's also true of Python. Yeah, frankly. Uh, it's the most widely spread language
There's another reason for them and there are many frameworks and libraries we could use to measure code quality to run tests
Boy, those are not super strong reasons in my opinion
and
Because a lot of people use it as not an exception. Yeah. Yeah, a lot of that applies. Yeah
Yeah, it's a lot of people don't use it
A lot of people use it as not an exception. Yeah. Yeah, a lot of that applies. Yeah
I saw a banner. I saw a banner
I don't know if it was an advert or something from Oracle saying, you know Java on six billion devices
But of course most of those are Android which they would contest is actually Java
I think it's Mac support play on Linux wants to target Mac OS
Otherwise, why would you just use a big gaming platform?
No, that's why I think it's silly
But you know, I have talked to the CEO of crossover and it is what keeps their business afloat
In fact, he told me that if it wasn't for the Mac sales, they probably would have shut down
They still make their Linux product, but they make the majority of their revenue on the Mac sales
I think it's just a larger user base. But you know, the Macs have such crappy video cards across the board on average
So I yeah, I mean half of their line just ships with only Intel graphics
Qt seems like it would have been a lot more sensical and I just don't get Java. So unless it's for what was 10, don't you think?
Well, like I say
we maintain
Multi-platform tools in Python at work not Mac as it happens, but Windows and Linux
and there's
There are some that well the same and similar issues
We have slightly more complex issues than most because of the nature of the world
We do so the abstractions that we have to do a very low down sort of at the at the hardware layer
But
Maintaining a multi-platform application on
You know Python application or Java application
Is about the same really if you're not doing anything too clever
It sounds like they're using it mostly for their front end rather than the back end
So I'd have thought well, there's lots of languages that would have been straightforward
But yeah, maybe they've got people on the team that are particularly proficient in Java
and that's why it makes sense because they can speed up the development and
You know rapidity of their iterations maybe so every year this Mother's Day thing gets me
Every year I have palpitations
Where I think oh shit a brick. I've forgotten Mother's Day. Mm-hmm. Well, here's so much trouble
And then I remember actually we did that three months ago. Yeah, I was just gonna say isn't yours like
before
March
Yeah
That is hilarious, but Twitter Twitter Facebook and Google Plus are just full of it's Mother's Day. Happy Mother's Day
And you just have this. Oh shit moment. Yep, and every it's it's a new thing ever since I've been on the social networks
in the last three years and you suddenly think oh
Well, and it's just getting worse too like this Mother's Day
I don't know. I think it's no somebody's flapping. Um
it's like
Everybody was saying happy Mother's Day. Oh, yeah. Yeah, it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's
Everybody was saying happy Mother's Day. Yeah, it's it's no longer a big deal. It's no longer just a happy Mother's Day to your
Moms. Yeah, it's everybody out there if you're a mom you get a yeah and like I don't
It's too much. I think it's yeah, I think it's the homework holiday that i'm just like not
Interested in oh you say that then if I hadn't gotten you anything you would have been interested in no, no
No private celebration is fine. Oh, yeah. Yeah, but yeah, I don't know. I just private celebration where you get something
So publicly making it awkward happy Mother's Day. Yeah. Yeah
Yeah, yeah, because I just didn't I didn't want to say happy Mother's Day to my mother-in-law my mom on Facebook
You know and I do want to say happy Mother's Day to some some friends of mine
But I don't want to I don't want to do an all-encompassing one
And I don't just want to do them because then other other friends might be like why aren't this?
Why isn't she saying it to me? Like it's just stupid. It's complicated. I just send private messages
The answer to this is a php script
Yeah, you're right. Probably
Welcome to linux unplugged your weekly linux talk show that's converting one mac user over to linux at a time
My name is Chris and I'm Angela. Hey there, Angela. You are the mac user here. I am speaking of yes
Guilty and I figured you know if I could start there and work my way out
Okay, that's one person at a time one and actually it's not only not only if we switch one person but so far it's stuck
Yeah, yeah, we're going to talk about that. Angela just recently switched over to linux. She's rocking a lenovo yoga
Three and we'll get an update from her and she's got like three or four
Tough questions linux desktop questions that she's going to pose to our virtual lug today
Put them to the test and see if they can solve some of the problems that she's ran into in her switch to linux
And I think you'll be surprised and not surprised at some of them plus in the show
We're going to talk about ubuntu's jump into the internet of things with their good buddy
microsoft
yeah, microsoft and a canonical announced a pretty big partnership along with ge
And others to ship ubuntu on internet of things devices. What the hell does that mean? And what does this fridge do?
We're going to talk about all of that
Plus we're going to talk about the chip computer the world's first nine dollar computer that runs linux
And what some of the cool things we could do with that plus we've got some follow-up some catch up some feedback
It's a really really big show. So before we go any further it is now
Our duty to bring in our mumble room time appropriate greetings virtual lug
Time hello greetings. Hello guys. Hi guys. Hi
Hey, uh, this is a story we've been following on the show
And I just want to do a little follow-up
before we get into all of the meat just to kind of
Keep a trail going for this new debbie and project leader that was elected recently and the whole talk around
Ppa is coming over to debbie and well
He sat down over at linux.com for an interview and they asked all kinds of questions
I'll link to that in the show notes if you guys want to read them
But I wanted to get right in on this ppa thing because I think this is some interest to some of us
Uh, he says there's hundreds of ppas for abundance the question will they work with debbie?
Mcgovern says I think this is unlikely although debbie has a good relationship with ubuntu and other downstream distributions
We have different focuses
Keeping all of the main libraries in sync would create a lot of effort to allow this to happen
And it's not something we really have time to do while developing our own distribution
So because of the library differences ubuntu ppas probably won't work on debbie
And how difficult will it be for developers who have ubuntu ppas to port them over to debbie?
And he was asked Mcgovern answers. I don't think it would be particularly hard
But they're really two different things
Essentially the work is creating a debbie and compliant package and then a lot of the preliminary work has been done
By by creating the ubuntu package anyways, so ang
Yeah using ubuntu but on ubuntu
There is a way you can get this thing called a ppa like a personal package archive
And what that is is like say you wanted to get a version of chrome
And you wanted to make sure you always got the latest version of chrome when google pushed out a new one
You could go get a chrome ppa
And it's a personal archive that you could go then get that software from google
And then they would keep updating it for you directly from their servers when you do part of your regular system updates
So these ppas are like little ways for software makers to put out software to linux desktop
And then people to come sort of subscribe to it to get updates. It's kind of nice, right?
And so but ubuntu is like one of the few distributions that does this kind of system, but ubuntu is based on debian
And debian is considering implementing a system like this. So debian users have sort of the same functionality
Mm-hmm, but the two systems will not be compatible
So you have two systems similar name similar function, but if you make a ppa for ubuntu
You won't be able to have that ppa run on debian
Wow, that's dumb. Yeah, that's what happens. They can
Why do they conflict?
Why can't they both be subscribed because the ubuntu computers have a different set of libraries that the programs use than the debian computers
And they can't the developers can't expect both to be on. Oh, I see
It's kind of unfortunate though, right? I mean from an end user's perspective that seems a little confusing
But you either run ubuntu or you run debian, right?
so
You you from the the what the so what that actually means is exactly right is there's going to be a lot more
There'll always be more stuff available for ubuntu because there's more people on the desktop using ubuntu things like that
Is this one way for like software makers to keep a pulse on how many people are actually using the product?
Yeah for sure because they're going to get download stats off the repo and stuff
So you're going to see every time somebody connects to pull off
So it gives you an idea of how many people are keeping their software up to date
So it gets you an idea of how many users are out there using it
Hmm. Yeah
Uh, yeah mumble room any thoughts?
Well, the download thing they don't really give you much information at all. Like they give you like a simple download
Yeah, but it's not you get a number, you know, you get an idea of how many people have downloaded that package
But there's no real great metrics
I just hope that debian doesn't call it ppa. That way there's no confusion. Well, they have been calling them ppa so far
I think they're just describing what they're going to be but if they call them something else
That would be much better because then there wouldn't be any confusion. I'm like, well this ppa is for ubuntu
And there's no debian. Yeah. Yeah, we'll follow it. We'll see what happens
the thing is in order to submit a
Package to an ubuntu ppa for building you have to create a debian source package
So once i've done that I could send that to the ubuntu ppa system and whatever debians
You know use a package repository is dpa. I like it's the same. It's the same. It's the same thing
Yeah
Uh, what would we call it the other day?
dump
Definitely user-managed packages. I like that a lot. Hey, did you take a dump?
Yeah, put that in the dump. That's pretty good, actually
All right, uh, well, uh, we we have talked a lot about wayland on the show
We've talked about how great it's going to be how it's going to change everything. Well mandre writes in
Says hello mom barum and chris and angela. Yay
He says why do all of you want to switch to wayland so freaking badly when replacing x
Do you not want to replace it with something more useful wayland throws all usefulness and even usability out the freaking window in wayland
Security trumps all always performance does too
It seems ironically most implementations will probably not even support online updating and in the core of wayland
We have only very basic functionality drawing onto a buffer support for input devices and some very limited output protocols
Wayland is inherently inflexible if anyone wants to add additional functionality
They must do it in the compositor the window manager and then publish the protocol if this is if this is even up to all
Other compositors window managers and etc to then support that protocol
What if the two compositor teams and the window manager teams write two different protocols to do the same thing?
Naturally, there's some basic functionality missing in wayland wayland does not support screenshotting wayland doesn't support screen recording global hotkeys clipboards
I think or gamma correction all has to be done in the compositor and this is just very basic functionality
But to finish it all off wayland is not network transparent and networking is a nightmare
Don't you realize that this is the future and in the future more devices are interconnected and network oriented not less security
shmurity performance smormons mandre
Wow
This guy does not like wayland. What is wayland?
Like what would you compare it to wayland's what's going to get the just in real simple terms wayland's is what's going to get stuff
Up on your screen. That's what just going to get the graph of this right here
This is a this is an x11 graphics environment, right?
So when I move this window around on my screen, that's x11
That's drawing that on my screen wayland's going to replace that but it's basically a whole new way to do it
Totally new totally new work needs to be done on the on the desktop environment ends on their compositors and mandre brings up some good
Points the stuff that comes so with x you get some of the stuff just built in by having x you get some of these
Features and with wayland you have to write some of your own
Hmm, uh, and so on that did not ever offer those or is it just because it's currently not available as a standard stable release anyway
Well, I think because the wayland developers think that it's not up to the server to do that stuff
It's up to the clients to do that stuff. You want to do screen recording?
It should be the client. It should be the composer that does that not the back end infrastructure
Well, the the client is definitely the thing that should take care of something when it comes to user facing interaction
But no any keyboard or mouse or interactions with hardware to the compositor
I'll go through kms and uvdev
It is kernel then it goes up to the compositor which it then filters out throughout the wayland client clients
And did you guys see a friend of the show martin the kwin developer?
Just said after years of work. This was two days ago master
The master kwin branch now has become a proper wayland compositor
So kwin and gnome both have rock and wayland support and they're doing those things in the compositor
That's where they're getting it done at and so there must be a benefit, right?
Because why is is it just a way to redo something and potentially make it better. I could be wrong
I think the real true benefit is they're trying to build something that can last 20 years
And so if you build some of this stuff in on how we do it in 2014 or 2015
Well, then in 2025 or whatever we're 2030 when we're using it
Maybe we want a completely different way to record our screens
If you do that in the desktop environment, that's and that's just my generic way of saying the composite or whatever
That's much more nimble you can make the change there much quicker than pushing it out to the server that affects every linux distribution
On the planet, right? So instead of just affecting a desktop environment
That's also the x
The x architecture is kind of from the 80s, which is based on x86
So all the code is very very old and it's all insecure by default wayland is trying to be secure by default
And that's why it's a little bit hard for wayland programs at the moment since everything is a little bit immature
Yeah, in order to communicate between each other. Yeah, it is
That's basically the issue is like sometimes the security is just a little too tight and it makes doing what they're trying to do
a little impossible
I don't know didn't one of the x developers
Themselves that is working on wayland denounce how x was doing their own code in itself
Yeah, and then another benefit I see is that if it's not on it's not on
Uh, if the client needs to change and adapt then wayland doesn't need to change and adapt that way
They kind of future proof it anyway, right?
So if something changes you don't have to worry about the the graphics layer
the other advantage too is if you're building for a very extreme unique use case something like
You know an embedded device that's maybe like a small embedded screen. That's a presentation mode
You don't have to modify the entire back end infrastructure to accommodate this one off. You just build that into that
Uh compositor that that particular device is using I mean it makes sense to me, but it's a big transition
Yeah, q5 sys producer q5 sys says wait till wayland gets rolled into system d I am
I'm hoping they roll in this kernel. You'll enroll in wayland. Just get all one big linux d. Well, we'll call it the d
It'll be good
I hope I get the d
Hey, you know what that's a shot everybody. Hello take a shot. Uh, so so, you know for me
I don't understand the problem because um
They often already uses wayland and they already have all the features like uh, yep screen sharing and all that
So so it's actually not as big of an issue
Yeah, implement it and some right I guess in practice it hasn't it actually hasn't been that bad
Yeah, and security is you know
With all the like nsa stuff. I think security needs a graph focus because really if you
read some of the
recent breaches, uh
You know taking security as a backseat because of uh, usability is not a good thing
Just it's not a big deal. I think basically if you look at it this way
Oh, and there is a point where you have to start you have to start taking it. Yes security seriously
um and and you have to start making compromises and I also think that uh,
We sometimes get trapped in dogma thinking things will never change that we can't build a better system once we've built the first version
Uh, there's things as 2.0 and 3.0 releases and things can change before we go any further
We have uh, I have some things I want to dig into with angela and her switch to linux
Uh, but first I want to mention our first sponsor and that's ting
You know
Go to linux.ting.com right now if you would that'll support this show and give you a 25 discount linux.ting.com
Ting's mobile that makes sense. We've been using ting for more than a couple of years
We've saved over two thousand dollars by switching to ting
You can find out how much you would switch by using their savings calculator right there on their homepage
When you go to linux.ting.com ting is truly mobile that makes sense because there's no contract
And there's no early termination fee because there's no contract and then you just pay for your usage your minutes your messages and your megabytes
And whatever bucket you fall into that's what you pay and it's really easy because it's just a flat six dollars for the line
Yep, and you can bring your own device. Yeah, really nice
And if you bring your own device, you'll get a 25 service credit by visiting linux.ting.com
And that'll probably pay for more than your first month
At least and they've got gsm networks now and cdma
So you can bring over the iphone or your favorite android phone. It's we've got an iphone on ting
We've got an hdc one on ting and a nexus 5 on ting
And they're just all great because we only pay for our usage. We're on wi-fi a lot
So we're saving a ton on data and voice minutes, which is really we use one for our nanny
Yeah, like it's a nice little perk benefit for her that she doesn't have to pay for her cell phone
Yeah, and we look like we do all ours. Meanwhile, it's six dollars for that line
Yeah, yeah, yeah, and I can I can communicate with her whenever I need to that's key
You know like that that was the most important thing is that she had a good reliable phone and phone service
So yeah, so and you can the other nice thing too is once you get somebody on ting
Uh, they're set because if they ever run into any kind of problems ting has no whole customer support
So you just call them at 1855 ting ftw and a real human being answers your phone and I like that
They're there. They're set up. They're ready to answer your problems. I think that's a pretty nice perk
Uh, they also have all the features you'd expect like voicemail caller id tethering hotspot three-way calling call forwarding all the other features
That you might want but then a whole bunch more like you can turn devices on and off if you don't want to pay for
Them this is really slick
Like if you get one of ting's mi-fi devices
Because it's six dollars to have data in your pocket
And then if you're going to go a couple of months where you don't need data in your pocket
You just go into the ting dashboard and just turn it off. That's awesome. Isn't that great? Yes
And you just turn it back on and now the ting has cdma and gsm coverage
You can roll over to either one
Just make sure you get a device that's capable of doing that or just for the cost you get one on each
Or if you just have a device already
You can get a nine dollar gsm sim card from ting and enable that and it's good to go
It's so straightforward. They also have a social presence, um, at least twitter and instagram
I believe they're ting ftw on both and they're on youtube as well
They have links at the top of their website and they're putting out great videos all the time
They have a really active community at help.ting.com and on reddit. There's a ting subreddit
That is always really good
I visit that from time to time because i'm kind of a ting enthusiast so i'm always kind of checking out to see what's going
On like, you know, hey, where's the how's the how's the edge being tested anyway firefox os devices on this kind of thing
It's really nice. It's truly no bs mobile service
they have a whole range of devices from like fifty dollar devices up to like the high end like nexus 6 and the moto x2 and
You know the samsung devices all the really great devices over on ting and then you get that amazing dashboard
If you go to linux.ting.com, that's linux.ting.com. You get to put linux in your your wall bar. That's pretty cool
That's why I would go but then you also get a 25 discount and you support the linux unplugged show linux.ting.com
Huge thanks to ting for sponsoring linux unplugged you guys rock
Okay, angers, let's get real here about your switch to linux real quick
And I wanted to kick it off with an email that we got him from kenny about your switch. Oh, I haven't heard this
So i'm i'm ready to be beat up. No see ang, uh, you don't even probably fully understand
But there's been quite a bit of controversy and debate on this show about your choice of arch over ubuntu
Oh, yeah. Yeah, I you didn't really do they think I have a choice. Well, uh, see, uh
Noah and I spent a lot of no. What okay
Do you have like a 10 second recap you can give ang about how we almost went with ubuntu and then we went with arch?
so essentially, um
Based on the hardware that we're originally going to set you up with uh, it a long story short
It ended up being more beneficial to go with arch due to some of the limitations of the installer of the alternative
Distro and then once you got it
We saw how excited you were and the chat room was
More or less celebrating the fact that you were using quote-unquote real linux none of this
Ubuntu stuff and then we saw your reaction to that
When we went back to redo it due to some of the issues we ran into the second time around again
with the the the alternate distros
We again or I rather again opted to go with uh with antergos. Um, and one that kept everything uh,
A similar experience to what you had on the original backbook that we gave you to what you had on the lenovo
Um and the venoba she uses here in studio
Right, but uh, then the other side of that was there was a lot of people and I would have been one of them
Honestly, if i'm being honest about it a week before I got there somebody would have said
Uh, we're gonna switch my wife to linux and she's never used linux before what we what should she use?
The last answer that would have left my mouth was archer and or antergos
And it wasn't until we actually got there and it's one of those things that if you weren't there in the studio
Doing it with us, then you won't understand why we made that choice
So, uh kenny writes in and he says in the past I would have kind of like wimpy did had suggested that you go with
Ubuntu, uh or one of its many flavors for angela
But now I might agree with your current decision to go with antergos gnome
I had i've had my girlfriend's acer's laptop on antergos gnome for more than a year without issue
As has been the same with my own laptop
I did the initial setup which involved no more or minor hassle than you would expect from setting up linux on general hardware
I don't monitor the updates
She just pushes the button and when the notification comes in much the same as I do in fact now
It just provides a nice easy option for updates. And if anything does go majorly wrong in the future
Well, then i'll just boot off a usb stick transfer files off and reload if I can't fix it directly
There's no difference to what I did when we were both on ubuntu plus being on the latest stable kernel has fixed far more
Issues than it has introduced
I can't think of any negatives actually at the moment because antergos is extremely finessed skin on arch
It gives you a gorgeous gnome desktop right from the get-go. Whereas ubuntu gnome doesn't from the login screen through to the desktop
It's just lovely
Angela has already been impressed by that and I would
I venture I would easily notice the difference between gnome 3 14 and 3 16 the whole notification things for start arch linux provides an engine
But gnome antergos provides that polish and that beautifully veneered wheelhouse
I think this is the future for ubuntu as well with an antergos like shock absorber over the raw power of linux
I wouldn't have gone with elementary precisely because it's a mac-like interface
It's like dressing a wolf up as sheath as a sheep
It may look soft and cuddly but sooner or later it's going to bite you
When something looks at when something looks the same you expect it to be the same and linux is definitely not os 10
Thank you torvalds ii
kenny
So kenny thinks it was a good call for you to go with antergos anders
And so you and I were kind of discussing a couple of issues that you ran into
And you had some questions you wanted to bounce off the mumble room and see if they had some answers for you
Do you kind of remember?
Well, yeah, I forgot that I was going to be put on the spot. I should have um written them down
Yes, because I was we were walking just before the show. Yeah, i'll write them down
I was like here are the things that I so all right. So the first one was uh, there are constant updates. Yeah updates and
Um, I feel inclined to you know, like it has a little pop-up and I I feel inclined to touch it
Well because you know, it's a yoga 3 touch screen
Um, I just don't even go near them because I have no idea what they're going to do or what needs to happen
and as it turns out we did some updates and
Uh, it did like the first part of a wi-fi update and it broke the wi-fi so it couldn't get the second update
Yeah, it's just a broadcom wireless and then I was stuck at home
Without being able to connect to the wi-fi. She had to wait for me to go home with my usb ethernet adapter
So we could finish the updates. Yeah, that that's the that's the first bump you've run into. Yeah, really. Um,
And uh, I don't know i'm on the fence on the updates. Yeah
You see with linux and not see like with os 10 when you get an update
It's updating like itunes or it'll update os 10 or safari, right?
But with linux every single program gets updated from everybody. So all your apps constantly getting updated not just
So it's not just os updates. It's like a new version of the editor a new version of libre office a new version of firefox
So there's more reason to update too. Yeah, I do. Um,
I somebody asked if I like the new mix theme or whatever, but that's when you changed
Yeah, I changed it to evo pop
Yeah, so we changed it because it was kind of hard like so I got I ordered using i'm using evo pop on my screen
right here, so I ordered a mouse
because
Um, I needed a smaller one a more portable one because I take this, you know here and um, or anywhere really
And I was able to find the settings to slow down the mouse cursor because oh my gosh
Like it was flying off the screen
But I couldn't tell that there was actually a circle to dial down the speed like I just guessed that there was and um,
So we did change the theme and I like the new theme better. Yeah, but let's see what else um, I plugged in my iphone
Oh, yeah. Okay. So hold on you're going too fast. Oh, i'm sorry. So let's stop right there. So constant updates mumble room
Uh, what's the consensus?
Do you guys think that we should just let angela go at it and update or do you think she should wait for me?
To come in about once a week and install the updates
Second thing really yeah, I wouldn't step right wait
I wanted to say
That yeah, it's have a more
experienced user
Guide her through the updates for a while once she gets the hang of it then hand her the ring. Yeah, I guess I could watch yeah
That's what she said
My vote would be that uh that she waits for you because oftentimes how often have you had that situation?
Where you get the call from the user and they say, uh, my computer isn't working
Well, what happened when it happened then they try to describe it to you and you ask them a very
A very poignant question. Did you see an error that that resembled this or did this come up on the screen?
I don't know a bunch of text scrolled across the screen. Oh, come on. Give me some credit here. I'm not saying that
You're the person that's going to do that
But i'm just saying if if if text comes up on the screen or or an error message is presented
That doesn't make sense to you
It might it's it's it's muscle memory when we see stuff that we've seen a million times before it
It stands out to us and if that doesn't mean something to you
It might something that would be very very important may not stand out. So i'm thinking that's a good idea
Just disable update alerts. Well, no, I mean nice
I well, I suppose we could do that. I was just thinking like every friday and I could just do them or something
I could just sit there and after tech talk today. Yeah. Yeah, and then we so
Sorry, so I have an alternative what about um
having certain
like giving angela a list of packages that like
if she sees the
Like linux then a broadenware then she doesn't need but everything else she can update
It's yeah, I suppose we'd have to we just pride her at least like five packages that she cannot update and that's it
I'm thinking maybe but i'm thinking that list would probably change
Uh, yes, you can always put it the pacman hold, you know, don't update this package. Yeah, I suppose so
Yeah, I think I I don't think I I don't think we need to go that far
I think just waiting once a week and doing that if it breaks then we'll talk about it and we'll let people know
Uh, all right. So there's answer number one now
Here's number two and I don't know if we we may be able to get this cracked for you
Maybe I don't know. We don't have a lot of iphone users in here
But the number two problem that angela has run into
angela go
Is plugging in my iphone?
Using the usb to lightning adapter
It I I went ahead and plugged it in nothing automatically opened which was actually kind of refreshing to be honest
Because you just hate it when stuff just pops up when you plug in your stuff because when I plug in my phone
To a macbook it opens iphone and itunes. Yeah, this stuff just goes crazy
And itunes automatically starts pulling in syncing and updating and I don't really prefer that
I'd like to be able to tell it do it
But what you're not you're not looking to sync music necessarily you're looking to pull your photos off
Well, um, the camera is the number one thing, right? That's the biggest thing
I do like I do like play counts because there is a degree of accuracy to play counts in
Customizing playlists, but not super important anymore
Um, yeah, so I opened. Um
Shuttle shutter
So lord shadow is saying if we install lib mobile device, it might support it. I wonder if oh, yeah lib
Mobile device i'll take a look at that. I forgot the name of the photo program. Oh shot well shot well. Yes
Yeah, so, um, I opened shot well and I was pleased to see that it showed a mobile device attached
Um my iphone so I clicked on it and it said
Importing pictures in the middle of the screen. Oh good. Yeah, well, no
Well, the thing is I don't want it to automatically import. I don't want all my pictures up and you know
Oh really? Hello?
Because it also like at first I was like oh crap and then I saw on the bottom right hand corner where it said
Import selected or import all you know, so i'm like, okay good
So it's not going to automatically import even though it kind of looks like it's telling me that it's importing
Yeah, um, it just stays there. I just left it there for a while. It never actually pulls them off
It sees them, but it doesn't pull them off. It doesn't see them. It sees the device
It doesn't preview any pictures and there's no like way to know if there's any pictures there
Um, and those buttons aren't clickable, you know import all or import some
so
Yeah, okay, and uh lord shadow you say uh, yeah, here we go
You got something the arch wiki on the eye and hooking up the ipod. Perfect
Thank you. Awesome. So
um
one thing that I would like to um
Say that I like is when I open up my laptop
I don't know how to get it to the password screen
other than to
Use my finger and swipe the screen up. Yeah, you like that I do
I do it's so nerdy, but and it's and it's out of uh, you know necessity because I don't know how to get it
Oh, is that okay? Yeah, I think i've tried to skate before but it didn't work. Anyway, so um, so I really enjoy that
Yeah, that is cool having the touch screen, huh? Yeah, i'm surprised you like that so much. Yeah now
I know we had a third issue. I know there was a third item, but I just don't remember what it was
Oh, I do remember what it was what?
Um, and this is uh, this one may be one for knowing you to talk about
The problem you had when you open up your bill spreadsheet. Oh, yeah. Yes. So, uh, this isn't libre office hate noah
Brace yourself noah. I I have my dropbox set up and I was gonna just sync some files
But it it's actually harder than I expected. Um, I open up my bill spreadsheet, which I go off of
Like religiously religiously. Yeah, that's how you track everything. Yes, and with color codes and yeah, and first I got
A couple errors and I don't know what they were
Ha
I said something like unnamed dot odt not found or something like that. Like it gave a file name. Okay
Anyway, I got like three or four of those and then uh, it ended up opening up the spreadsheet, which is good
But all the formatting was gone
Now is this uh when you say that it says one file wasn't found it makes me wonder unnamed unnamed unnamed
Dot odt do you have multiple was the spreadsheet is it connected to other spreadsheets by chance? No, I don't do that
Okay, that is complicated
So what when you say all the formatting is gone
Are you talking about like text formatting or are you talking about like uh, like the formulas like the color coding shading? Yeah
Yeah, okay. Yeah
Um, I haven't uh, I haven't worked extensively with uh with with very very complicated spreadsheets
but if you uh, if if there's a way to strip out the
Uh anything that's anything that's sensitive data and if you could send me a copy of that spreadsheet
I would you know
If I could look at it i'd probably be able to tell you
Why it's not working correctly or find out the answer for you
Well, and I actually I have a solution to it and that is to use some kind of online in
I was gonna say no, what do you think of like her using office 365 for this kind of thing?
Um, yeah, actually office 365 is is as a as a linux user and as as somebody who supports
You know free and open source software
For me, I have to have an actual office week because that's just the way I prefer to work
But I can sell three office 360 365, whatever they call it. Uh, no, no problem
Because a it works flawlessly on linux
It really does and two if you think about it the value there if you're paying 99 a year versus the whatever it was
Three or four hundred dollars you would be upgrading your office, uh software every four years. Anyway, right?
It's not free
That's I don't think it's free. I think I think that there's a basic version that you can use for free
But I think it's 99 bucks a year
Well, I guess it's 10 bucks a month unless you pay I guess if it's for business bonsai. Joe says mint.com not mint linux
Yeah, I I do use mint.com for jupyter broadcasting and our personal we i've been using it since uh, like
2009 I think yeah, we've been using we're early adopters of that. Yeah
Yeah
Angela have you tried uploading that spreadsheet to google docs and see what it does with it. Um,
No, they would read all of the things
yeah, it is I mean it's my bill of spreadsheet, but the the thing is I
I tried to use google docs as my thing, but it is so paired down and limited
That it just I just hate it
But I have started using it for like sponsor tracking and host payment tracking
So I am dealing with it to a degree. It's just limited
Yeah, I might be able to and and converting it like so that I could use it in excel
It it made it a little complicated. But anyway, I was thinking that if I used, uh, you know
Some sort of web-based program instead or or solution then I wouldn't have this I could go
I could I could run ubuntu next week if I wanted to uh, look at this wimpy is just uh,
Giving us the command i'm going to copy this right here. He just gave us the command to install mobile support in arch
Yeah, yeah, so that should work pretty good. Well, then I should have an update for you guys next week then
By chance have any of you tried caligra sheets the qt version of the spreadsheet program?
No, the libre office version. No, no, I haven't the last mac user that we converted to linux
He's um, I don't don't see him in the the room here now, but he actually switched from
Uh from microsoft office over to caligre and said that it worked flawlessly for him
And I know he does uh a lot of spreadsheet a lot of his work is spread
Spreadsheet centric. Okay. Okay, cool. Yeah
So the thing is like after I opened it, I was afraid of modifying it in any way because it's it's my live dropbox
You know saved there. It's not like a copy
I was afraid that if I modified anything and saved it that it would drop the formatting
And if I open it elsewhere, it would it would not have it anymore
And wimpy you have a suggestion maybe to help sort of bring some stability to the arch setup
Okay
Well, yeah, you were saying that um
You've got a broadcom wi-fi device in that yoga three and it was whilst you were doing a kernel update that
you lost
wi-fi true, so
I would suggest moving to the lts kernel in arch linux on angela's machine
Okay, because that way you're not going to encounter as many kernel updates far far fewer in fact
And therefore, you know, it's just the applications and and the utilities that are rolling then and I think there's far less
opportunity for breakage in that configuration
That's probably a good point. Uh, and and really there's really no it's probably no disadvantage with her machine
I don't think her hardware requires like 318 or 40 or whatever it is, but
Yeah, I guess it actually does make a good point on that if uh,
She's on the lts kernel with the less updates. She might have an actual more stable machine because you have less updates
Yeah, I like that
That is pretty good idea wimpy. That's a nice little touch
I'm going to write that down to a move over the latest lts kernel in arch is 3.14.41
So it's not like ancient by any means
Lts kernel. All right. I'm taking notes for you andrews. You like that? What what you also need to do is if you've got any drivers
Kernel drivers you need to look for the uh dash lts suffix
On the drivers you're using right? That is true. Yeah that binds the two together and then you're you're good. Yes, and they get updated together
All right, so any other um greater or creator
I don't know just pointed out that if I have it saved as dot xlsx that might be
That might be making it buggy. Oh, yeah
Oh, yeah, and save as xlsx yes. Yes. I don't almost forgot about that the xlsx and uh,
Yeah, the excel. Yeah
That whatever that file format actually is
Doesn't work well in open in libreoffice if you have the older version file format saved then it'll work flawlessly
It's the newer microsoft formats that's got some sort of proprietary garbage inside of the coding for the save files
That corrupts it anything else? Yeah
I uh, I think uh, I think that's good. So andres will you uh, give us an update in the future on uh, how it goes
For you. Yeah, definitely. You keep us posted. Uh, and you know, let's talk about something else
You've been using pretty heavily since your switch to linux wine
uh
No, unfortunately for you
I actually just ordered a case because it disappeared from all the grocery stores
I had to order a case online. That's 12 bottles chat room. Yes. She does drink chocolate wine
It is very true choco vine chocolate wine choco vine. It is it is
Creamy belgian chocolate with with some sort of trolley cheap red wine mixed in there. Yeah. Yeah, that's chocolate
No, you've been using our new digital ocean droplet with our minecraft. Oh, yes, I have. Yeah, you have yeah
Yeah
Let's talk about digital ocean real quick before we shift gears here digital ocean is a simple cloud hosting provider
Dedicated offering the most intuitive and easy way for you to spin up your own cloud server
We've got a few of them now and one of them is a fairly beefy one running minecraft that angela and my son
Are playing on all the time now? Yep
It's really awesome
And you know one of the things that's really great about digital ocean is it starts at only five dollars a month?
And you can get started in 55 seconds
So I knew for a really great price and really no time at all
I could get my own droplet spun up and at five dollars
You're gonna get 512 megabytes of ram a 20 gigabyte ssd one cpu and a terabyte of transfer
I just knocked it up a couple so i'm paying like 20 bucks a month right now, I think or something
And the reason why I went with my digital ocean droplet because I wanted I wanted like lots of transfer and lots of storage and
Lots of ram and I was looking around like the hosted minecraft solutions and no downtime. Yeah, no down always running
Yeah, and you know the hosted minecraft solutions that are dedicated for this are way more expensive way less control
And I don't get this ssh in and get a command line and with digital ocean. I can take snapshots. I can manage it
So if you guys want to meet want me to back something up before you make a big change we can do that
It's really easy
Uh, and you know, I think the other thing is is it we have a we have a international audience
And a lot of you are in other parts of the world and digital ocean has data center locations in new york
San francisco singapore amsterdam germany and london
They have a really great brand new one in germany that has just incredible connectivity 40 gigabit e to each hypervisor their fastest ssds yet
Uh, it's really though. Uh, it's a great service because for the value for the price
You can get started in 55 seconds to get up there
You can do anything you need to do you own this box you get root access. There's an html5 console
It's based on linux using kvm as the virtualizer ssds throughout the entire stack
So you get incredible disc io no longer need those fiber attached scuzzy rate arrays with the 10 000 rpm drives
Those are gone and now you can create something locally on your own machine in a docker container and push it up to your own
Droplet or set up a machine up there and digital ocean has an amazing interface to make it all possible
It's super intuitive this control panel freaking rocks. It sets the bar
Nobody else can touch it
People are trying to rip it off
But they can every time they try to do something digital ocean does it better?
And a point to that they just rev their api the new version of their api came out that allows you to take
Their straightforward dashboard and bring all that functionality on your own. You can take it with you
You can write it into your applications. You can take advantage of the community written applications
You can snap it into your management infrastructure
You can just write a quick couple of lines of bash script or python or ruby code
To do something like take a snapshot of your machine before you do a system update
And then when you're on that digital ocean management where you get the html5 console
You can do full dns management you get snapshots and you can do templates you get one-click
Installations of things like docker and gitlab and ruby on rails all of this is linux technology open source stuff
It's really awesome code and go check out ducu. It's one of the projects that contribute to make this possible
They also work with upstream distributions like core os and and free bsd to make sure you get the best experience of those
On digital ocean five dollars a month people when you use our promo code do unplugged do unplug
That's all one word. It's lowercase. It's going to give you a ten dollar credit
You can try out that five dollar rig two months for free go get your own linux box up in the cloud
With crazy crazy fast access ssd drives. It's a real server that you get to control and it's super neat
There's so many great things you can do with it
I've got an own cloud rig a bit torrent sync rig a minecraft rig. I've got machines. We've used for production purposes
We've got a droplet. We use to bounce video signals off a remote host like no during linux action show
There's so many use cases for digital ocean that can be your back end infrastructure or just use them for hourly testing
Digital ocean.com use the promo code do unplugged get a ten dollar credit do unplug just apply it to your account
You can do it anytime. In fact, if you created your account you forgot to apply do unplug go use it
Go apply it. You'll get that ten dollar credit do unplug over at digital ocean.com and a big
Thanks to digital ocean for sponsoring the linux unplugged program. You guys are rockin
Rockin and angel have been using that droplet like a fool
Uh, so poppy didn't make it here today
It doesn't look like uh, but heavens and I heavens revenge and I wanted to talk about uh this story
Um, the ubuntu has developed, uh ubuntu snappy core
We've talked about it before and it has in this last week taken up a ton of traction
It's a brand new version of ubuntu. That's not even really fully baked and made it shipping on anything as far as I know
but today
Uh canonical and microsoft and ge and acer announced a partnership
Uh where they're going to become allies and work on the internet of things devices including from ge standpoint a freaking fridge
That runs ubuntu a freaking fridge a fridge that runs ubuntu a linux fridge
And uh, they're all running off of ubuntu snappy core ubuntu snappy core is the transactionally updated version of ubuntu
You install an update it installs that update to a new partition. Why are we shocked that a fridge is running linux?
Like because it shouldn't be able to i'm like, why is that? Why is that like? Oh my gosh. Why does it need to?
All right. My point is I think the other things is a bit of a joke, but okay
But so i'm glad they're choosing a good distribution. I mean at least they're choosing linux and you know, so they're using this
This transactionally updated version of ubuntu called ubuntu snappy and the way it works is you install an update
It writes those updates to a new file system you reboot it boots into that new file system
If it fails to boot it just boots into the old one. It's kind of like a guaranteed update system
So that's ubuntu snappy core. That's how you update the system. Now. There's these new packages coming out called snaps
They're a new version of click packages. We're taking click packages and we're calling them snaps. This is such a cute language
It's very adorable and snaps and wow, but uh, uh, I I just I
I look at this and i'm starting to get a little glazed over in heavens
I know you wanted to mention uh that the snaps people might have a maybe a bad
Interpretation of how snap packages work because I think people are assuming they're transactionally updated packages
That means you'll never have a package that fails to install etc
Do you want to jump in and sort of?
You've been digging into this you've been looking specifically about how snappy core is architected. I know you have some observations here
oh, yeah, i've been looking at this for quite a few days and
And canonical is probably the worst source of information that you could have found in order to understand this system
But they actually have
Let's say one version of a piece of software. It's all static and installed under a version number
directory in the file system then after that
They just by when they mean transactional
As the version numbers change in the directory structure. They change the symlink as a current
To the different version number in the file system pretty simple when they mean transactional
They just mean changing a symlink right to the other everything statically in there
So this is a very bloated system
Everything is within this package
You mean everything like if the if a program requires a library instead of using the library that's already on the computer
It pulls down that library with itself. It brings its own version of the library kind of like the pbi system does completely
There's no reuse of system barely any reuse of system libraries
They're all self-contained packages, which are statically compiled and possibly in it
But what you're looking into snap packages themselves are not transactional like when I install an own cloud snap
And then I want to go to own cloud 802. That's not a transactional update
In the traditional sense of transactional no because there's stuff that can fail within a certain package
It's to me transactional means all or nothing
So even like a file can be can fail to be put onto the file system that
Traditionally is not transactionally consistent
Okay, but but where it is transactional and i'm not sure if this is implemented yet or if it's on the roadmaps
But it was certainly presented if you take that own cloud example and you upgrade from own cloud 801 to own cloud 802
And there's a sql schema change
It will make that schema change on the database
And update and then if you find a problem with that version and you roll it back to 801
Those schema changes are undone and your and and your database what's tracking the schema changes?
What rolls those schema changes back?
I haven't looked into it in that much detail, but I know that this was the aspiration for what it can do
they would have to be looking at the block changes on the system or at least copying everything like a
Database completely separately between one version and the other or they have to the block level block level
different like differential
yeah, and maybe that'll be um
Achieve and that would be only by what butter fs. Yeah, or overlay fs, right?
But they're but their current implementation is using extended for
Yeah, they require extended for at the moment
I I spent some time talking to some of the devs about this and
And it it whilst I learned a lot. It wasn't clear to me how much of what I was being told is
What's available now versus where the aspirations are but I very much did get the impression that there's still
Some work for canonical to do to flesh this out as a project and whilst they're encouraging people to get involved
Um, I was asking well, you know, could I build one of the derivative flavors of ubuntu?
Based on snappy right the same way. They're proposing to do for um
Uh 1510 they're going to have a yeah their plan is to have a desktop image of unity next
Using the snappy packaging and I was kind of encouraged to maybe not dive into it that deeply just now
But to follow what was going on with ubuntu's developments with their desktop
Um and certainly start look at packaging
individual applications, but this is the other interesting thing about snappy what you consider a package traditionally
And what is a snappy package could either be the same thing or very different
so if you take um something like um, the mate desktop that's made up of lots of different components such of
There's the mate session manager and the mate power manager and the kaja file manager and so on and so on
Each of those are separate packages at the moment, but in the snappy landscape the mate desktop
The whole thing could be a snappy package, right? So you could move the whole desktop environment between
Major and minor version releases with a single package
um, and this is a bit similar to what steam are doing right because steam provide effectively their
Sandboxed runtime. Yeah
Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Well each one of those snappy
Sure, yaml files has dependencies that you can
Note and then it would basically update the entire desktop even though you're updating all of them at the same time
Yeah, and I think that that they were saying that they were going to do
unity as a single or
What will be unity at unity next as a single snappy package to start with?
Hmm, so the whole desktop environment will be one package all of its libraries and everything
Yeah, and then what they'll do is then start to tease that apart. So they'll start to pull bits apart from it
So different bits that make up the unity desktop are delivered as different snaps
Yeah
so they're going to start with the whole thing because that's
Relatively easy as far as I understood it and then start to tease it apart into sort of the sub components
But I think they'll still be
Bigger package, you know that there'll be um more like meta packages in a way, you know, but bigger runtimes
I think they are very quickly about to leave people behind
I'm seeing a lot of confusion about the software center still people don't understand how this fits in with that and
They're not getting the message that the software center is kind of going away people
I think they're starting to I think because so much is happening so fastly so fast, you know, it was uh, it's fastly
Uh, you know, you have abuntu core snappy core then first you have abuntu core then you have snappy core
Then you have click packages now you have snaps and it's all happening very fast and actually nothing's really shipped, right?
But uh terms have changed things have been iterated and I think a lot of people out there are kind of getting left behind
a little bit
um, but I think not
This all of this kind of seems like a very compelling interesting direction like they're truly doing something really unique here
And yes snaps might be specific to abuntu. Um, and and there is some question about the snap back end being proprietary
And the snap front end not and that's all kind of concerning
but in some ways i'm kind of excited because
It in a way like it could be a couple years down the road. You could have a system d powered snap installing
Converging desktop that canonical shipping they could have they could have the most unique compelling
Linux desktop out there in some respects if they pull all this off, let alone the internet of things crap
Which i'm not excited about
um
I don't know. I don't know if it's proprietary. You think it's proprietary. I don't understand it. Yeah, go ahead rest
No, okay, yes, what I don't understand is
one this intro like
dll hell like you have
three different versions of the same library on the system because it's like an image is not
Shared right there. Well, I mean the programs will be statically linked to their specific library
So they're not going to get confused but there you're going to have a ton of them on the file system
Yeah, but I feel like that's an old argument. I mean we all have huge hard drives
This is how android does it at the moment so you know whether you know it or not if you need
Shared libraries in your apks
You don't just have the shared libraries that you need multiple times over but you have them for the different architectures as well. Yeah
This is also a very simplified version of what bedrock is doing
Yeah, yeah. Thank you for bringing that up. Right. Go ahead. This this this is actually like the issue of
It's being it's a lot more packages
Yes
But those packages are usually tiny in comparison to how much we have as hard drives or just ssds now or gigantic for cheap now
Um, it's it's not a big deal anymore. And
Like if I have an extra 100 megs, ooh, whoop-de-doo. I have three terabytes
Yeah, it did make more sense on the time of dial-up in every
Every kill about you had to transfer mattered that I think yeah, so size doesn't really matter is what we're giving
I think it is what we're saying size doesn't matter though. Well if it's a tiny package
Yeah, it's my guess would be there be going to be around three times the size that we're used to now
It's perfect, isn't it? It's great, huh? I'm on board. Yeah
Uh, huh. I'm really curious to see where they go with this
I don't I don't I don't I'm I don't know how they're gonna pull it off and transition but they got a lot of transitions
Coming up. They got a lot to move people through there is a lot of terms in linux. Yeah, that's great, isn't it?
No
It's like every time I think i've got one down then another's thrown and i'm like, oh my god
They create we create new we create like 100 new ones every week. I know right
All right, so, you know, I want to talk about chip I want to talk about ubuntu rodent, okay
We'll get that we'll do that. You could probably put that on the chip
So I think this is going to be I think you're finally this is this is the device
That's going to save our financial situation because at a nine dollar computer. You can't even you can't even balk at that
That's that's something that's it's it's a it's a wearable right where you feed feed an animal you keep it alive
I remember those those are the worst
Uh, no, no not that before we get to that though. I want to tell you about something that's the best
That's linux academy go over to linuxacademy.com
Slash unplugged and get our special 33 unplugged discount. Oh, that's awesome. That is that is awesome. I know
Linux academy.com slash unplugged linux academy freaking rocks. It's gonna help you take your skills set up to the next level
So if you got like a review coming up or you want to land a client or you just want to feel better about yourself
Maybe challenge yourself or learn all the words like I yeah
Or another great one is because they have seven plus distributions you get to choose from uh, you can you can like migrate
So like if you want to go from ubuntu to sento s or something like that
You can go you choose from the seven plus distros all of the courseware automatically adjust the labs the virtual machines
Automatically gets set to that distro. You've got self-paced courses with over 1400 videos that you can watch
They've just rolled out a whole bunch of new stuff. I was just talking about this on coda radio yesterday angela
But how much do you love this?
Uh, just a couple of weeks ago linux academy rolled out a new feature called nuggets. Oh, this sounds good already
It's like a tiny bits of of sparkly wisdom from experiences admin and devops just like one little bit of wisdom
So it's not a whole course. It's cliff notes. Yeah, and like it's amazing
Makes you do like one thing a lot better
And so like here's an example of creating a pixi boot server for automated installs
Setting up single sign-ons with actor directory and linux like that's a huge one for our audience
Or what is actor directory like from a linux user's perspective and how do I make it work with my box?
Like that's great. Here's ldap ubuntu 1504 and why we care configuring route 53 dns
quick quickly deploying actor directory open file management foreground and nutshell system d versus system v init
Setting up and using static routes look at all of these editing an iso image dos box encrypting a folder
Changing linux kernel parameters securing ssh. It goes on and on
These are all just one little quick course where video courses you can go in there
And then of course as a linux academy subscriber you get access to all of the content
They just rolled out their new red hat certified system stuff
Yeah, like you can you you subscribe and it's just kind of like, um, you know netflix like a netflix subscription
But for education on linux stuff that makes you smarter. Yeah, and you can do your own pace like on the screen right now
Did you know that a little bit ago linux academy announced a um grant program?
They're going to do a five thousand dollar open source grant program
For open source licensed projects people in the linux academy community are going to get to vote on which projects get the funding
Oh, how do you submit?
Uh, I they're gonna have a page up and i'll let people know but here's how you can vote
I know this so far because they're rolling this out in bit by bit
they've rolled out um a
A new club that you can be part of the founders club and in there's a bunch of perks like access to beta
Content and new stuff and new site development stuff
But also you get to vote on where the grant money goes towards
And you just have to be an open source licensed project to qualify for the grant
So there's probably a few projects in our audience that could get that money
Absolutely, and if you're going for your red hat certified system administration stuff
They've got courseware up on that and it has been a major hit on linux academy
The devops essentials course was just updated 50 video nuggets are now live
AWS csa pro courses available and a lot more content coming all the time over at linux academy. It's so awesome
Yeah, what I love about linux academy is they we've always got something new to talk about because they're constantly pushing out new stuff
And those guys just they just must be working 24 7 over there linux academy dot com slash unplugged get our linux unplugged discount
It's a great service built by linux and open source enthusiasts. So it really makes a difference. They're not a generic training site, right?
This is what they do. That's what makes them. So awesome linux academy.com
unplugged
Now it was actually I think it was poppy that or no
it wasn't poppy, but it was somebody in the mumble room that told me about chip chip is the world's first nine dollar computer and
It's it's already phenomenally successful on Kickstarter. So they don't need our attention. They've got 20,000 backers
They had a goal of 50,000 24 days to go. Yeah, they had a goal of 50,000 and they've raised a million. Oh
Oh my gosh. Yes. So here I want to play chip for you. This is so cool. And of course, it's a linux based computer
This is chip the world's first nine dollar computer
Connect over a composite vga or hdmi
Chip does computer things save your documents to chip's onboard storage
surf the web over wi-fi
Play games with a bluetooth controller
But wait, there's more
This is pocket chip. It makes chip portable take chip put it into pocket chip and you can use chip anywhere. How cool is that?
Um, very you might have noticed chip looks a little different than every other computer
Because we built chip to fit into your projects and we're so excited to see what you can do with a nine dollar computer
Kickstarter we need your help to make chip for nine dollars. We need to buy components in extremely large quantities
Help us make the nine dollar computer a reality and back chip on kickstarter today. Thanks
What do you think that's adorable the nine dollar computer well done and you can put it into your projects kind of looks like bimo
Does a little bit anybody in the mumble room been following chipper backed it even?
Any backers in there? I've been following it and I nearly backed it
Not now you haven't pulled the trigger, huh? How come?
Um, well the the shipping costs to the uk are more than twice the price of the device. Oh, yeah
The delivery estimate is september 2016
Oh, wow. Yeah, so they have some they're uh, january in may
Oh, you pay more to get it sooner. I don't know exactly i'm looking at that right now
Just it was just a bit far out. Yeah, you know, yeah
So gigahertz processor 512 megs of ram 4 gig of storage got wi-fi and bluetooth
Uh, I I really like the uh, the the thing that you kind of pooh poohed and let's see. Where is it? Oh, yeah
The game boy looking. Yeah, the pocket chip. Oh, it's like a pda or but look at this thing
Like so if this was a little computer for like dylan or abby like it's got a pencil hole so you can put a pencil in
It to hold it up, which is adorable. Come on. Oh my gosh, that is great
And it's got the gpio pins available so you can hook accessory devices up to it right there at the top
Um, I don't know. It's got a five-hour battery. I think it's a pretty neat idea
I I really want to play with one of these i'm not going to back it because I don't I don't have any use for it
But I am so thrilled that computers. Oh, i'm sure you do
I don't know. What do you think? I don't know. Hmm. It looks like it was pretty versatile. Yeah
I do have an idea that you can use it for if you were to get a few chip devices
You can use them as use one as an ldap server one uses a kerberos server one use as
a miniature file server
Where's the bailiff cluster joke? Hold on. That's the bailiff cluster joke used to be right on tip of tongue for everybody
Ww this reminds you of the ouya. Do you think that means it's going to flop? I don't know, but like everybody thought that
Ouya was going to be like the best thing and it's gonna you know, we're gonna have you know
This portable gaming and then it just totally flopped. Yeah, we totally have one of those
So it's still in the box
It came out for like a day. Yeah, the ouya was a big flop. You're right
Well, the ouya was also
It was a floppy just in general when you know when I first saw it. I was like, okay an android console. I don't care
Yeah, the aim was wrong. Does anybody want our ouya thing?
Ouya. Ouya. It was wrong. They were off the mark with ouya. Yeah, this is different
This is this is more about something
This is a component almost to a larger build you buy this to build this into something else. I could see
Right, so there's a lot more opportunity. What does it do that arduino and pi doesn't?
Nine dollars. I don't know to be honest
Because yeah, what was the price?
Because yeah, well use pi for nine dollars. So, you know, the pi is is quite a bit bigger
It's like yeah three times as big that's true. It is bigger and it it it looks like uh, you know
like things that you'd insert into a um
Like a teddy bear or something or no a tower. No, no the oh the pie. Oh, yeah. Yeah
Yeah, this looks like this looks like something you could insert into like another toy like this chip
Looks like you could put it in the inside a speaker
You could put it inside a teddy bear and make it do sounds like this is so small
It's it's as small as a vga cable. Basically. Yeah, that's crazy. Yeah
It could be a full linux system
Yeah, yeah. I yeah this whole area is pretty competitive
I don't think it's necessarily bad to have another competitor in this space though
And these guys kind of have a unique approach to it. I like that there arduino is also much more limited than this thing
This has a lot more already built into it
So it can do things by itself like it has it has uh, you know video out and everything like that
Everyone is not true. That's a great point. Yeah, that's a great point and they're working on you guessed it an app store
For this thing. Oh, geez, everything has apps. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Wow
I do like the idea of the pocket chip. I think that's my favorite part
I'm with i'm with imacon like that's what really got me because like that's like okay now i'm starting to see it
I get it now. The pocket chip looks so cool probably because it looks like something I would have played with in the 80s
So we'll have a link to that in the show notes if you guys do want to back that
Um, it's like angela said they still got 24 days to go. So you got plenty of time to get in on it
Uh, they don't need your money. That's great
And now they're gonna be able to buy it massive quantities. I would think so china
Yeah, did they only ask for 50 000? Yeah. Yeah, and they got a million. So there you go and you know, uh,
Hey guys, when's the last time we saw a device like this that where they were pimping the fact that it runs windows
You guys remember anybody anybody hold on
The pie that calls for
Yeah
exactly
That's right. I mean nobody yeah
The raspberry pi 2 is going to eventually have some crappy stripped down version of windows whoop-de-doo
But nobody launches their premiere device on kickstarter like this and talk about how it runs windows or how it's going to run windows arm
Nobody does it. It's always linux
Always the pie also just said it could yeah true true
Yeah, I I said good for them
So it's by the next thing co and it's the chip and it's kickstarter.com and you just search for the chip on there
It's like super successful. So here I just want you to take this is the notes
All right, and i'll read those when I get home for the things we're going to do to your machine
Do you haven't do you feel like we covered everything for you today? I mean now you're gonna have another batch of stuff. Yeah
um
Do you have any final questions? Um, we just uh
Need to get my second monitor
Yeah, hooked up to that because it has a micro hdmi out. Yeah. Yeah. Do we need to get input on that or no?
I just have to get an adapter. It's no bigs. It's just uh, just got to get a micro hdmi adapter
Which we don't have one of course
All right. Well, then we will leave it right there. I uh, I should you know
I should probably mention before we go last week was matt's last episode of linux unplugged
He though is launching a whole new set of projects
He's like in a super creative phase phase right now over at matthartley.com to find out what he is up to
Angela though. Thank you for joining us and going through the rundown
I'd love to have you guys join us next week
We do this show live on tuesdays over jblive.tv 2 p.m pacific on a tuesday
but go to jupiterbroadcasting.com slash calendar to get that converted to your local time zone and uh, then we will uh,
What you look at me like what?
Oh, and then now because we know we have the mumble room. We've got all that stuff
We'd love to have you guys in here. Uh, mumble room. Is there any other final notes?
You guys want to touch on before we run this week?
All right
So just a little bit of details before we get out of here go over to linuxactionshow.reddit.com
linuxactionshow.reddit.com that makes this show even better linuxactionshow.reddit.com is where you can submit stories
You can submit feedback. You can submit anything like that that you think would make this a better show feedback threads things like that
Angela why don't you plug some of the stuff you're at people might want to follow you on the network
Okay, so I am doing women's tech radio and we are currently we've we've released two
Linux fest northwest live interviews that we did the first was with scarlet
She works for kde and kabuntu and she's uh, she's a linux for lifer
Yes, like and that's the title of the show. So check that one out. It's a it's a quick one
And then the most recent one actually, i'm sorry, it actually releases tomorrow. Yeah
Wednesday, yep episode 26 is andrea frost
She was a firefighter in alaska and injured her leg and decided to go back to school and get a math degree
So she could teach math, but one of the prerequisites was to take a computer course
And that changed her life
Now she now has a master's in computer science check out the fo show
Apple watch versus android where I thought that was a pretty fun episode fo show fo show returned yesterday
And it's live after linux action show if you catch the linux action show
There you go. That'd be a good one to join us on because then you get to watch like linux action show on that show
It's a whole lot of show. All right, everybody. Well, thank you so much for tuning this week's episode of linux unplugged
We'll see you right back here next week
It's good show andres thanks for being here didn't realize you had a time constraint there. Yeah. Well, we just have the music play
I know it's fine. Yeah, it's fine. So did you guys see the news about floss unplugged? I
Did a little bit. I just haven't gotten any links about it
Uh, yeah, so we are working on a new show that will not be hosted by myself
Um, it'll be hosted by benjamin. Chris karencia. I think that's how you say his last name. Um karencia
You may have seen him on our shows before we've interviewed him a couple of times. Uh, he uh,
is uh, uh
Developer he speaks at a lot of conferences. He's an open source evangelist. Uh, he's a former firefox community release manager
I think he used to be an ubuntu member, uh, but is no longer and uh
I've bumped into him for a while and uh
And so he and I have been sort of talking back and forth about him creating a show with him and his co-host alex
A show called floss unplugged which would be more
More focused on the free and libre aspects of open source and including firefox os devices and things like that. So it's still early